# W3C Solid Community Group: Solid Editors

* Date: 2021-12-22T14:00:00Z
* Call: https://meet.jit.si/solid-specification
* Chat: https://gitter.im/solid/specification
* Repository: https://github.com/solid/specification


## Present
* [Sarven Capadisli](https://csarven.ca/#i)
* Justin B
* Kjetil K

---

## Announcements

### Meeting Recordings and Transcripts
* No audio or video recording, or automated transcripts without consent. Meetings are transcribed and made public. If consent is withheld by anyone, recording/retention must not occur.
* Join queue to talk.


### Participation and Code of Conduct
* [Join the W3C Solid Community Group](https://www.w3.org/community/solid/join), [W3C Account Request](http://www.w3.org/accounts/request), [W3C Community Contributor License Agreement](https://www.w3.org/community/about/agreements/cla/)
* [Solid Code of Conduct](https://github.com/solid/process/blob/main/code-of-conduct.md), [Positive Work Environment at W3C: Code of Ethics and Professional Conduct](https://www.w3.org/Consortium/cepc/)
* Operating principle for effective participation is to allow access across disabilities, across country borders, and across time. Feedback on tooling and meeting timing is welcome.
* If this is your first time, welcome! please introduce yourself.


### Scribes
* Sarven


### Introductions
* name: text

---

## Topics

### Solid Protocol milestone
* SC: Steps towards the publication of 0.9.x and 1.0.
* KK: How do we get things into the milestone, getting implementers and stakeholders and also have commitments of time towards doing things that needs to be done.
* KK: The previous milestone was to mandidate existing practice and yet we didn't have enough commitment to prioritise stuff and now we are brining more stakeholders and we need to have the ability to address that complexity. It is far too early to find the mandates and what issues should be in the milestone and think about in high-level on what we need for 1.0 or put off. Have higher-level things, break it down to issues, then have milestones.
* JB: What's needed to getted into 0.9.x and where is that line drawn? At least document a practice.
* KK: What don't yet have what's for 1.0 in public record.
* SC: What we have is milestones on ~CR and ~PR that can be shuffled around as we did for ~FPWD milestone and 0.9.
* KK: Those are your opinions what should be in there. I and other stakeholders have other opinions. We need to have consensus around what it is what we needed (on high level) and then milestone. And time commitments from various stakeholders.
* SC: Need vision statement and a way to translate to milestones.
* KK: We need a full day meeting.
* JB: I agree. Information we got like from implementation feedback (re: other stakehodlers with opinions). I've followed on that session with Tim on the importance of well-porganised roadmap where we have doucmented feedback, support and reasoning is consumtable by stakeholders and give actual input and also input for process like this. When we talk about prioritisation, ... here is all the data to know how to prioritise. I was trying to reconcile on the feedback session,.. some of the stuff are on Tim's roadmap and at least try to put it into some structure that we can then at least look at and work from. In the SolidOS task manager some things may be miscategorised but that could be one effective one for everyone. At least there is a need to put the data together and organise so it can be consumed better.
* KK: We also need a full view. We focus on the Protocol here but there is also the panel work that also takes time from us. We need to organise also with that to understand the time commitments. Like service to the community.. but we can't do that for a long time.
* KK: Should we try to organise for first thing in new year to organise a time.
* JB: half or full day?
* KK: full.

ACTION: KK to organise a full day meeting for the editors group.

* SC: There are a lot of items in front of us that need to be dealt with that we can start / need to be working on right now. That should happen in parallel to the longer-term priotization that will unfold over a couple of months+
* SC: Lets' come back to this in a January meeting.
* SC: Do revisit issues/PR for 1.0 in milestone-next.
* KK: Should we create milestone-0.9.1?
* JB: So lets move the stuff we know into 0.9.1 milestone.

ACTION: KK to create 0.9.1 milestone.


### Solid Protocol Publication and Access
* SC: PROPOSAL: The publication of the next release of the Solid Protocol specification (i.e., "v1.0", "~REC", or equivalent) MUST be accessible from a Solid server, along with all other resources under https://solidproject.org/ . To make it so we need commitment (issue/milestone..) and coordination from everyone that may be involved (Solid Team, server/app developers..).
* JB: +1. It would be great to get some assistance ... A lot of the stuff ends up being administrator or any of that stuff tends to funnel down to me - I'm happy to do - but we should try to bring people together, including some of us. It is not insignificant work but stuff related to current composition of the site (sp.org) - there is deployment, re KK's point about doc changes, releases to the spec and those need to be autopublished and correctly. Like devops actions. And ideally we want the work in the panels get published to a in-process stage somewhere in sp.org. Maybe we can ask Ruben for someone to volunteer in CSS to help with this. And other people that worked in/around the site. Essentially this will be one big pod. Do we need a discussion on information we want to move or relocate there. How do we want to organise that. Perhaps to SC's point on leading by example. Do we want to talk about what data should be there, organised and represented.
* KK: +0.9. This is an example of another thing that we need people's time commitment. This needs to be part of that process .. sufficient number of people to say this ia a "MUST" and time for
* SC: can we break this down to ACTIONs for various groups?
* KK: it is an issue of priority. the final priorisation for 1.0 needs to have it on the whole table.
* JB: I tested the site on CSS some months ago and it mostly worked - the were was one issue re directory support. have seen some work go into CSS that will probably eleviate that. most of the time we want a proxy in the front but the other issue that need sa proxy b/c there was no https support but that's resolved in CSS. At least seemingly addressed. We can work together to figure out the publishing and it didn't seem like it was that far away. We can probably phase this out. I think what SC is looking for can be addressed in MVP state. If it means that we need to in the first phase - manually checkout and commit the specs for example while we do the autodeployment stuff. We can portion out and mak it a progress rather than a big reveal. Maybe getting there wouldn't be crazy. If we break those out in steps.

ACTION: SC to ping Solid Team about this proposal.

ACTION: JB to re-test CSS with sp.org and follow-up with them.

ACTION: KK to look at the outcomes - list of concrete actions for getting publishing Solid on top of CSS.
