# W3C Solid Community Group: Solid Editors

* Date: 2021-09-22T13:00:00Z
* Call: https://meet.jit.si/solid-specification
* Chat: https://gitter.im/solid/editors-group
* Repository: https://github.com/solid/specification


## Present
* [Sarven Capadisli](https://csarven.ca/#i)
* Dmitri Z.
* Kjetil
* Justin

---

## Announcements

### Meeting Recordings and Transcripts
* No audio or video recording, or automated transcripts without consent. Meetings are transcribed and made public. If consent is withheld by anyone, recording/retention must not occur.
* Use panel chat and repository. Queue in call to talk.


### Participation and Code of Conduct
* [Join the W3C Solid Community Group](https://www.w3.org/community/solid/join), [W3C Account Request](http://www.w3.org/accounts/request), [W3C Community Contributor License Agreement](https://www.w3.org/community/about/agreements/cla/)
* [Solid Code of Conduct](https://github.com/solid/process/blob/master/code-of-conduct.md), [Positive Work Environment at W3C: Code of Ethics and Professional Conduct](https://www.w3.org/Consortium/cepc/)
* If this is your first time, welcome! please introduce yourself.


### Scribe Selection
* name
* 


### Introductions
* name: text
* 

---

## Topics

### Setup ad-hoc sessions based on at work issues 

KK: Propose when someone is the assignee of a given issue, they should try to schedule some ad-hoc live sessions when needed to work through a given issue  (JB +1)

### Consider regular session between specification editors and implementors

JB: Have a request from some implementors to consider live sessions between editors and implementors 

DZ: Like the idea +1

KK: +1

SC: Like the idea of engaging more with people. Need to be clear on who "some implementors". Suggest to reach out ot solid/app-development chat and related channels.

JB: Can take the lead on setting it up since I raised it. Will make a github issue, and propose a summary of what it is / isn't, and share back with editor group for review/adjustment before posting to various channels.

### Solid Demos
URL: https://gitter.im/solid/app-development?at=610bd4cb8fc359158c5484ef

SC: Setup a monthly demos session where people can share / show-off what they're working on. Relax the community a bit to share things they're hacking on.  JB +1

JB: Great idea - would attend / participate

KK: Engage Marrelle to coordinate

SC: Engage Women of Solid as well 

### Milestone: Current Month
URL: https://github.com/solid/specification/milestone/4

KK: Should set a monthly milestone and close it at end of timebox, and move things along

JB: +1
DZ: +1
SC: +1

### Nominated
URL: https://github.com/solid/specification/issues?q=is%3Aopen+is%3Aissue+label%3A%22status%3A+Nominated%22

### Clarify the notion and mechanisms for server-managed information
URL: https://github.com/solid/specification/issues/177

### Specify container description
URL: https://github.com/solid/specification/issues/227

### Editors Team to move/copy notifications related issues to the notifications-panel
URL: https://github.com/solid/notifications-panel/issues/4



### Topic

* name: text
* 

PROPOSAL: text
* name: +1,0,-1
* 

ACTION: text
