# W3C Solid Community Group: Solid Editors

* Date: 2021-11-10T14:00:00Z
* Call: https://meet.jit.si/solid-specification
* Chat: https://gitter.im/solid/specification
* Repository: https://github.com/solid/specification


## Present
* [Sarven Capadisli](https://csarven.ca/#i)
* [Ruben Verborgh](https://ruben.verborgh.org/profile/#me)
* Dmitri Zagidulin
* Justin Bingham
* Tim Berners-Lee
* Kjetil Kjernsmo

---

## Announcements

### Meeting Recordings and Transcripts
* No audio or video recording, or automated transcripts without consent. Meetings are transcribed and made public. If consent is withheld by anyone, recording/retention must not occur.
* Join queue to talk.


### Participation and Code of Conduct
* [Join the W3C Solid Community Group](https://www.w3.org/community/solid/join), [W3C Account Request](http://www.w3.org/accounts/request), [W3C Community Contributor License Agreement](https://www.w3.org/community/about/agreements/cla/)
* [Solid Code of Conduct](https://github.com/solid/process/blob/main/code-of-conduct.md), [Positive Work Environment at W3C: Code of Ethics and Professional Conduct](https://www.w3.org/Consortium/cepc/)
* Operating principle for effective participation is to allow access across disabilities, across country borders, and across time. Feedback on tooling and meeting timing is welcome.
* If this is your first time, welcome! please introduce yourself.


### Scribes
* Sarven


### Introductions
* name: text

---

## Topics

### Write methods as requirements
URL: https://github.com/solid/specification/pull/304

* SC: I left a comment/summary. Not happy with the PR merge but I can live with it for 0.9.
* RV: Did we follow the right process for merge? Because it was merged with only 2 approvals instead of the required 3.
* DZ: Didn't we discuss in the last meeting for 2 approvals?
* SC: We discussed. Didn't have RESOLUTION and didn't update solid/process.
* KK: It was merged by mistake. There was a bit of a mix-up with the branches.
* SC: So what now?
* KK: There may be a misunderstanding because of the role of the test suite. I intend to be talking from the point of the role of the test suite. The importance of the test suite in the ecosystem is not that well understood yet. We should understand that better before we merge. Will check with Pete. I made assumptions on our common understanding but if that's not aligned, we can review. Need a shared understanding with Pete who is writing the harness.
* RV: Two possible ways: we agree on this approval or if not we refer to it and start another PR process.
* SC: No objection for 0.9 but I'd like to revisit.
* RV: Can we create a tag on GitHub revisit-1.0 and apply this to all such issues? Done at https://github.com/solid/specification/issues?q=label%3A%22category%3A+revisit+for+1.0%22

ACTION: SC to drop a link to this discussion and label with [revisit for 1.0](https://github.com/solid/specification/issues?q=label%3A%22category%3A+revisit+for+1.0%22).


### DEIT to review Use Cases in Specification development
URL: https://github.com/solid/deit/blob/main/meetings/2021-11-09.md#deit-to-review-use-cases-in-specification-development

* SC: DEIT is interested in reviewing UCs. The DEIT team in solid/ org can be assigned UCs.
* SC: Mentioned this at TPAC 2021: https://github.com/solid/specification/blob/main/meetings/2021-10-27.md#panel-participation . Will add to notification-panel 2021-11-11 agenda again - didn't get to it last time https://github.com/solid/notifications-panel/commit/de452f1103d67a420eaa8afbd42266df741bfbdb#diff-2a1edabf1967ee14a1506d75d06ad86aa5efe1a63df0cf576be276ae87962cf2 .
* SC: UCs and to some extent Requirements MUST be actively considered on ethical grounds. (FWIW, see PR comment: https://github.com/solid/authorization-panel/pull/112#issue-711168108 - the proposer doesn't have to do review but should ping DEIT for horizontal review.)
* SC: We need to take ethical considerations into account early and not at the 11th hour of solutions e.g., https://github.com/solid/specification/pull/304#issuecomment-960565106
* SC: Got feedback?
* JB: Would the DEIT reviewing UCs to see whether there is any conflict with the goals of Solid? Are there feature or capability gaps that translate to "DEIT gaps"?
* SC: I agree both are valuable. Unspecified.
* JB: Would this block e.g.., UCs are not approved without review?
* SC: No, but there shouldn't be objections within an agreed timeframe.
* JB: Sounds reasonable.
* KK: I'm a bit divided. We need a larger societal dialouge. We also don't have the moral authority to act on behalf of the whole world. Which I think is an essential aspect. We do reason and certainly have motivation (technical and non-technical). We should make sure it is regarded as valid considerations when we talk abou tthem. I agree to have them done early. We could do jus tmore than the concerns we have. Post-facto rationale. With clear ethical design decision. Have to have certain level of humility. Hope that Solid grows into something that the tech is important. The reality now is that we are not close to that. Acknowledging that ignore is appropriate.
* SC: I agree. Good to have feedback as a starting point re humility..
* JB: +1 it seems like a useful resource to draw from - not sure anyone could do a perfect job ever but this seems like a positive benefit.


### Tighten consistency requirements for resource types
URL: https://github.com/solid/specification/pull/341

* SC: I'm finalising a reply to https://github.com/solid/specification/issues/301 and review PR 341. Request to hold off merges until I reply. Would like to run it by KK as well.
* KK: Alright.


### Describe N3 Patch
URL: https://github.com/solid/specification/pull/346

* SC: Follow-up on RV action https://github.com/solid/specification/blob/main/meetings/2021-11-03.md#level-of-sparql-update-support . Draft / WIP.
* SC: I haven't reviewed yet.
* RV: meta-comment: writing the HTML was hard.
* RV: Wrote what we had in NSS. The main open issue do we variables ??? . I described it as semaphore ??? This is as implemented. We can control the N3 Pathc.Q: do we need to have variables?
* TB: You nede the variables to have the `WHERE` clause. To indirectly identify bnodes.
* RV: Is that the only reason?
* TB: Yes, what I can think of now. The code to generate that is in rdflib for ages. otherwise if you don't have that.. patching with only bnodes, ??? pushback against bodes. JSON files into RDF. Every single node is a tree. Which would make it unreadable.
* RV: I haven't talked about bnodes. It is N3, can I assume the bnodes behave the same as variables?
* TB: What happens when you replace something with ??? I'd not expect you to get any bnodes. Should only get variables.
* Rv: bnodes in INSERT DATA
* TB: yes. certainly get bnodes in anything. in the case presumably, PATCH: .. expect that in INSERT DATA ??? I don't think the query engine will match the bnodes.
* RV: what I'm hearing is we need bnode sin inseRT clause. I'd disallow bnodes in others. WHERE, DELETE, INSERT cases. We should only allow bnodes in INSERT.
* TB: let's not to implicit.
* RV: I will reject 409 if bnodes in ???
* TB Perhaps 400.
* RV: meant 400, sorry.
* KK: That was my concern - why have a variable in there. Good to have that answered.
* RV: NSS uses `?target`. I think we agreed that it is not necessary so we can remove it. For future formats, we drop target so any request with it will be rejected.
* TB: target is a document you want to change?
* RV: eg:
```
@prefix solid: <http://www.w3.org/ns/solid/terms#>
<> solid:patches <https://tim.localhost:7777/read-write.ttl>;
   solid:where   { ?a <y> <z>. };
   solid:inserts { ?a <y> <z>. };
   solid:deletes { ?a <b> <c>. }.
```

ACTION: RV to follow-up.

* TB: This is going into Solid Protocol as servers MAY in Accept-Patch.
* RV: No, it's acrtually a MUST, because we couldn't agree on the SPARQL semantics, which currently differ between ESS/CSS on the one hand (SPARQL spec compliant) and NSS on the other (willful violation of the SPARQL spec).
* TB: I though a should in 0.9 and must in 1.0.
* KK: Aaron understood the conflict resolution mechanism.
* Need a lock in that the triple is deleted? someone is saying this involves locks? if so, then yea, we understand. if you delete successfully, then you're doing an atomic operation. A protected the operation  where you replace the ... showers ar eblocked by Kjetil and fails for Aaron..
* SC: I lost the analogy.
* TB: Nede to be careful on file-based thing. There was a lock-in thing which was major. didn't have good locking and threw that in then realised we need to have, if you are goin gto write it, you have to lcok the file and no one else can do anything with it until someone unlocks. when you're watching a movie, they should be able to stream it at the same time. We didn't think abotu this originally in NSS. Lots of people streaming at th esame time and if I want to change it no one is streaming at that time. Locks could be overlapping but the write lock needs to be unique. So write lock guarantees the ability to change it. Maybe with PUT you can do an atomic write.
* KK: What Aaron is saying is: there is eventual consistency paradigm ??? Not sure how they'll practically do this exactly.
* TB: They have take the notepad and show us how they'll implement it.
* KK: ??? If yo ufind that triple, tehn it needs to be an atomic triple.
* TB: eventual consistency is something like CRTS? But it may have changeback. Everyone may have the same version but it may not be the one you're looking ofr.
* KK: That might be the one where last write wins.
* TB: From our POV there is one server, from theirs there are bunch of systems across the world. So, this is something interesting to talk with X. To see how closely they use it. The way the chat works is that PATCH is atomic.
* TB: We need to focus on issues and not broad isues on atomicity. Unless there is something breaking, it is good to have that discussion independently and not waste our own time or things like that. Focus, focus, focus.
* RV: Comments on HTML. Do I write the RDFa or is there a guide? Or should i just learn by example.
* SC: I'll review everything in the end.
* RV: Can we have a guide of what is needed?
* SC: Currently in the spec. It can capture a lot but we need at least:
* - an identifier for a requiremnet
* - text description
* - indicate the party on which the MUST/SHOULD/… applies
* - subject of the requirement
* SC: tests sponge the specs for the requirements and generates reports/coverage...
* SC: Spec Terms WIP at https://github.com/solid/vocab/blob/specification-terms/spec.ttl . For any spec, not only the one in Solid.
* KK: I also found it idififcult to write but we have arrived that with RDFa in that. It is quite reasonable. My main concern is long lines. That also makes it difficult to read. Breaking up around spans is helpful to keep th eline length shorten. To avoid conflicts. I PR'd' something on 100 char limit but that wasn't wellreceived but we can do certain stuff to make it easier. I tis not terrible to ge the RDFa in there by just copy/paste. We can also look into simplify. It is going to be pretty nice for the test suite when oyu see it connected to the requirements there.
* SC: long list of reasons...


### Implementer Feedback
URL: https://docs.google.com/spreadsheets/d/16rTGAOug46GFcPjPlkTcdeZtlVML3HCgGdIotMloJ3U/edit?usp=sharing

* JB: If everyone can give feedback by end of week, that'd be great to get something out to people. And maybe next week talk about how to move on.


### Specify existing practice for Container data about contents
URL: https://github.com/solid/specification/issues/343

* SC: Will create a PR for 0.9 as per TimBL's request. Objections can be raised for release 1.0.
* SC: Discussion on https://github.com/solid/specification/issues/227 can continue.
* Specify Container Description meeting: https://github.com/solid/specification/blob/main/meetings/2021-11-05.md wasn't particularly useful in the end. But we should continue to hold topical meetings.
* TB: It is good to have meetings on things like that.. but if it had not happened, we'd be in a better place. For one thing, I couldn't get to it. Looking at things that was said, I'd have objected to Aaron saying these tihngs in the solid vocab instead of dcterms - to get interop. That is counter to the Solid principle. The whole discussion on what we could put it in.. is reasonable when we ahve 0.9 down. so we have existing practice ??? philosophising and brainstorming before 0.9 out. Focus on 0.9 and document existing practice. We have to rush N3 patches because i tis broken. We need to rush through authentication, so that's done. good.
* JB: We should have these topic meetings to invite people who are discussing it. It doesn't mean it needs to be settled there. In conjunction with what's happening on the GitHub thread.. having some live discussion seemed to help. Probably we can learn to structure those to have better progress. Could use that timeslot more regularly.
* KK: We should not 120+ comments...
* TB: brainstorming is good with postits and stuff.
