# W3C Solid Community Group: Solid Editors

* Date: 2022-05-11T13:00:00Z
* Call: https://meet.jit.si/solid-specification
* Chat: https://gitter.im/solid/specification
* Repository: https://github.com/solid/specification

## Present
* [Sarven Capadisli](https://csarven.ca/#i)
* Kjetil Kjernsmo
* Tim Berners-Lee
* Justin B

---

## Announcements

### Meeting Recordings and Transcripts
* No audio or video recording, or automated transcripts without consent. Meetings are transcribed and made public. If consent is withheld by anyone, recording/retention must not occur.
* Join queue to talk.


### Participation and Code of Conduct
* [Join the W3C Solid Community Group](https://www.w3.org/community/solid/join), [W3C Account Request](http://www.w3.org/accounts/request), [W3C Community Contributor License Agreement](https://www.w3.org/community/about/agreements/cla/)
* [Solid Code of Conduct](https://github.com/solid/process/blob/main/code-of-conduct.md), [Positive Work Environment at W3C: Code of Ethics and Professional Conduct](https://www.w3.org/Consortium/cepc/)
* Operating principle for effective participation is to allow access across disabilities, across country borders, and across time. Feedback on tooling and meeting timing is welcome.
* If this is your first time, welcome! please introduce yourself.


### Scribes
* Sarven


### Introductions
* name: text

---

## Topics


### Milestone/Roadmap/Prioritisation meeting
* SC: (Planning chat..)
* SC: 2022-05-18T13:00:00Z to 2022-05-18T16:00:00Z.


### Specification Versioning Scheme under TR/
* SC: (A PR is in the works for this but to recap) We roughly agreed to version new documents starting at 1.0.0. with pre-release?
* TBL: Use semver.
* KK: Panels use specs below 1.0.
* KK: Append stuff that.
* TBL: This is like CSS 1,2,3. 1.0 doesn't mean it is stable. This is the first draft of 1.0, e.g. 1.0-fpwd. 1.0 could be more stable than 1.1.
* KK: That's compatible with semver.
* TBL: With semver, whenever you make any you can make patch releases. Going from 0.1 to 0.2 that indicates incompatible change.
* KK: It is really how big is that problem.
* TBL: Solid-OIDC had lots of versions in fact.
* KK: but version number is for the document not the conceptual protocol.
* TBL: I think more of a version of the protocol.
* KK: That's where we disagree apparently :)
* TBL: Documents can be incompatible because of back compatibility concept.
* KK: We need to put Protocol to 1.0. 
* TBL: yea.
* KK: 1.0.0-draft.
* TBL: communication concern.. people have different notions/expectation..
* JB: People may not make a major issue of it. maybe for the roadmap we figure out what we want for each of the versions for external stakeholders. If we want to wait 1.0 for certain things, sure.
* TBL: I like semver after 1.0.
* JB: we don't even have to explain.
* SC: CCG uses 0.x for reports. Anything that's intended for the standards track (under a WG) will move on to 1.x.


### Test Suite Panel Charter
* SC: Proposed agenda for second meeting: https://github.com/solid/test-suite-panel/pull/4


### Change Reference to Solid-OIDC?
* SC: TR/protocol currently normatively references [Solid-OIDC Editor's Draft](https://solid.github.io/solid-oidc/). Continue to require Solid-OIDC and change reference to https://solidproject.org/TR/oidc ?


### Change Reference to Solid Notifications Protocol?
* SC: TR/protocol currently non-normatively references [Solid Notifications Protocol](https://solid.github.io/notifications/protocol). Require https://solidproject.org/TR/notifications-protocol and https://solidproject.org/TR/websocket-subscription-2021 ?
* SC: Aside: https://solidproject.org/TR/notification-subscription-types is a Living Document. Lists subscription types that are published under /TR/ . Currently only /TR/websocket-subscription-2021 . /TR/notifications-protocol refers to /TR/notification-specification-types so that implementers can discover published subscription types. WIP subscription types are listed at https://github.com/solid/notifications/blob/main/README.md#subscription-types .
