# W3C Solid Community Group: Solid Editors

* Date: 2022-05-25T13:00:00Z
* Call: https://meet.jit.si/solid-specification
* Chat: https://gitter.im/solid/specification
* Repository: https://github.com/solid/specification

## Present
* [Sarven Capadisli](https://csarven.ca/#i)
* Justin Bingham
* Kjetil Kjernsmo


---

## Announcements

### Meeting Recordings and Transcripts
* No audio or video recording, or automated transcripts without consent. Meetings are transcribed and made public. If consent is withheld by anyone, recording/retention must not occur.
* Join queue to talk.


### Participation and Code of Conduct
* [Join the W3C Solid Community Group](https://www.w3.org/community/solid/join), [W3C Account Request](http://www.w3.org/accounts/request), [W3C Community Contributor License Agreement](https://www.w3.org/community/about/agreements/cla/)
* [Solid Code of Conduct](https://github.com/solid/process/blob/main/code-of-conduct.md), [Positive Work Environment at W3C: Code of Ethics and Professional Conduct](https://www.w3.org/Consortium/cepc/)
* Operating principle for effective participation is to allow access across disabilities, across country borders, and across time. Feedback on tooling and meeting timing is welcome.
* If this is your first time, welcome! please introduce yourself.


### Scribes
* Sarven Capadisli


### Introductions
* name: text

---

## Topics


### Access Control Policy authorization mechanism, version 0.9
URL: https://github.com/solid/specification/pull/408

* KK: My concern isn't so much with the proposal, but that the acceptance of it into TR may make the ecosystem diverge in an unhealthy way, so we might want to think about if we can make WAC and ACP converge into one thing.
* SC: The ask is to publish a TR about an authorization data model.
* JB: I think it is appropriate to merge now as it is well-formed work undertaken by the panel for the last year that provides useful value. There is another conversation to be had after this about the relationship between the protocol and ACP/WAC but that isn't the subject or substance of this PR.
* KK: We should be explicit by what it means to be advanced to `/TR/`
* JB: Yeah, and what it means to be a draft, etc


### Test Suite Panel Charter
* SC: Charter development in progress as per https://github.com/solid/test-suite-panel/pull/4
* SC: Specific issues: https://github.com/solid/test-suite-panel/issues/5 , https://github.com/solid/test-suite-panel/issues/6 , https://github.com/solid/test-suite-panel/issues/7
* SC: Any feedback on https://github.com/solid/test-suite-panel/issues/5#issuecomment-1129987799 ?


### Requirement levels for Notifications
* SC: Continuation of https://github.com/solid/specification/blob/main/meetings/2022-05-18.md#change-reference-to-solid-notifications-protocol


### What does it mean to be in `/TR`?


### Milestone/Roadmap/Prioritisation
* SC: Continuation of https://github.com/solid/specification/blob/main/meetings/2022-05-18.md#milestone--roadmap--prioritisation
