# W3C Solid Community Group: Solid Editors

* Date: 2022-06-08T13:00:00Z
* Call: https://meet.jit.si/solid-specification
* Chat: https://gitter.im/solid/specification
* Repository: https://github.com/solid/specification

## Present
* [Sarven Capadisli](https://csarven.ca/#i)
* [Justin Bingham](https://justin.bingham.id/me)
* Kjetil Kjernsmo
* Tim Berners-Lee

---

## Announcements

### Meeting Recordings and Transcripts
* No audio or video recording, or automated transcripts without consent. Meetings are transcribed and made public. If consent is withheld by anyone, recording/retention must not occur.
* Join queue to talk.


### Participation and Code of Conduct
* [Join the W3C Solid Community Group](https://www.w3.org/community/solid/join), [W3C Account Request](http://www.w3.org/accounts/request), [W3C Community Contributor License Agreement](https://www.w3.org/community/about/agreements/cla/)
* [Solid Code of Conduct](https://github.com/solid/process/blob/main/code-of-conduct.md), [Positive Work Environment at W3C: Code of Ethics and Professional Conduct](https://www.w3.org/Consortium/cepc/)
* Operating principle for effective participation is to allow access across disabilities, across country borders, and across time. Feedback on tooling and meeting timing is welcome.
* If this is your first time, welcome! please introduce yourself.


### Scribes
* Sarven Capadisli


### Introductions
* name: text

---


## Topics

### Agenda review

* SC: Storage description is required for Notifications Protocol. Doesn't matter where.
* TBL: Then that's a dependency from that Protocol's perspective.
* KK: Shouldn't be a big thing to finish either. But my feeling is that we have the roadmap there so we don't run after individual issues. To have a proper process.
* TBL: We need notifications for the next release and you're saying notifications need storage, then storage needs to be in the next release too.
* SC: Right. It is ..
* TBL: Insecure websockets has a discovery system which Updates-via/HTTP header on every resource where you can subscribe to it.
* KK: Concerned about having too much headers e.g. concerning IoT protocols.
* TBL SC and I discussed this. I was proposing that pointers should only be on the folders. If you want to know where the top of the pod is you do GET/HEAD on the nearest folder.
* KK: That seems like a good way to do it. Get to the folder then to storage then whatever is needed.
* TBL: I like the way insecure websockets that thing is local to one URL. Doesn't depend on other specs so it is fast. I had hoped that the secure would be the same. We should just change the header and say different protocol is available.
* SC: The notifications protocol has a general approach.. not only for websockets..
* JB: Storage description is resolving this blocking getting the specs out? i would suspect we could split them and link to notifications protocol since it is a draft and resolve storage but it is a real question if it is incomplete until then.
* SC: No as it is designed.
* JB: Do we have to resolve the storage issue before we link to the spec?
* TBL: pointer to spec?
* SC: EDs are at https://solid.github.io/notifications/protocol and https://solid.github.io/notifications/websocket-subscription-2021
* TBL: Does it use concept of storage
* SC: No. Find your way to notifications protocol
* JB: what if the link header to storage metadata on every resource. TBL you liked info in the link header. 
* TBL: i like the fact that you can get the websocket info from the header. you are saying i should like almost doing that but going to another.
* JB: one issue you may raise that .. but then do another look up. but the fact that it is a storage metadata then you can cache that result. this storage has this. because at this storage level. it is going to change for each storage.
* TBL: what changes is it increases the startup cost. when i hit the chat.. shall i make a live update. at the moment what happens is there is you already know how to make websocket thing. but we haven't gone though sdk. when you ??? we don't have can i subscribe to changes..
* JB: one benefit to startup cost. it is one additional get on storage metadata. lets say you want to know ???
* JB: unlikely to change often.
* KK: caching..
* JB: and can listen to notifications on that resource.
* KK: where is the update-via header defined.
* SC: it doesn't exist.
* TBL: you're describing something different. you're asking about great authority... but he is asking where did we define..
* KK: that means it is a fairly open space. since it was something we invented.
* TBL: right
* JB: Gotta go. if consensus to have storage metadata, consider +1 from me.
* KK: something we need I'm hearing. it is an urgent to settle it.
* TBL: it has ontology for discovering the description but not the discovery for the protocol. should that be lumped up in the same spec or link.
* SC: not about a particular solution. split/orthogonal specs.. there is a parallel with acl rel discovery and that'll be defined in wac (and for iana).
* SC: one concern is about making the channels discovery and that's required for the Notifications Protocol. the other is about usefulness of storage description in general. first issue needs to be done for release of 0.9.1. the second is not as urgent. there is overlap.
* TBL: ... right KK?
* KK: It seems that we need that discovery spec.
* KK: Have this other issue about requirement level... next topic. we could also put out a 0.9.1.. then it has to be a must insecure websocket and then work on discovery mechanism.
* TBL: logical to be must because nss matches that. at the moment nss does it on every single resource. always have the ability to do websockets. if it is only what nss does it would be a must but i suspect css or in general as the we're hoping some people move to secure version... i'm happy to make it may. they can both be a may.
* KK: my feeling is that we really should be able to get in touch with people to make it a community issue.
* TBL: why ... in a short period? this issue has been out for 3 years.
* KK: so we don't need new server implementations to implement the old protocol.
* TBL: in that case you need to upgrade the clients.
* KK: .. dial in with the community to figure out what they need to upgrade and not implement the old one.
* TBL: clients should support either. we should not have no flagbase.
* KK: clients that already implement the old one would move around.. but new clients will only implement the new one.
* KK: we'd have to make sure nss also implements the new protocol.
* TBL: the way to do that/move in a back compatible way for new clients to implement both and nss to .. fora period of time work so that client can work with nss/nss.. we may deprecate the old one. could we upgrade nss. i guess we could.. we could also say it will use the insecure one.
* KK: the advantage that this has to happen quickly is to keep the overall cost down.
* TBL: what do you mean cost?
* KK: created what needs to be created for a community as a whole. every line of code is a cost.
* TBL: but you're saying it decreases the lines of code they write?
* KK: basically.
* TBL: if we have a flag day.
* KK: ultimately not going to happen.
* KK: not thinking of hard terms / editors but soft community management. making sure people are aligned and so this happens quickly.
* TBL: people have expressed a lot of concern. but the secure version hasn't be implemented yet. clearly we have to go through a transition when clients will implement both.
* KK: so how many client implementations are there?
* TBL: inrupt sdk, solid ui stack and i don't know who else.. or even if the sdk uses websockets at all. it may only be the solid ui stack. i may be wrong.
* KK: what needs to happen is.. solid ui implements the new ui that then..
* TBL: implements both.
* KK: then we support both.. and then it will work with nss css ess.
* SC: I'd wait it out for dokieli. Some new stuff is already in place. Will only implement the new one.
* KK: solid ui only needs to implement the new one. and we don't need more servers to implement the old one.
* SC: ...
* KK: we can't resolve solid ui will implement because that's someone else
* TBL: we can request. but you have to give them a spec.
* KK: so we have to..
* TBL: we need to have it work so we can point to a spec. on any GET, or storage description... anything fetched from the store the storage description will be fetched as well?
* SC: no.
* TBL: in rdflib, solid ui stack.. devs writing stuff.. one of the features is that you can sign up / subscribe to changes to resource. to do that in the new.. you have to .. 
* SC: where is the storage description from the chat file?
* TBL: GET chat.ttl .. there is http header says /server-description.ttl. now we want to want to know. rdf lib then has to fetch that. before it was with only the headers.. and now that resource. whenever there is a link to the storage description.. then there is no point in not getting. like going to nytimes it always gets the favicon.. a bit like that. why are they keep fetching the server data.. so.
* SC: feature or bug?
* KK: so many things that would happen.. not only discovery for websockets but other things that rdflib can go to a site and get the storage description and .. you would probably do that. as a .. you have that in cache. whatever you end up doing off that.. you have hat locally and subsequently need to understand how to subscribe to something you look up that graph and there you go.
* SC: that is the currently proposal in 355.
* TBL: any solid pod must support websockets at the moment.
* KK: we have a balance one axis.. header bloat vs to get more resources.. and http semantics and rdf semantics. i prefer to put more towards rdf. the things you need to upgrade are formulated on rdf. rdf is more of the language to say this is that and that's that.. rather than in http headers.
* TBL: i see what you mean now. once we have storage description we can go wild. while http headers is a pain.
* TBL: i'm starting to be convinced. which pieces of the spec missing. do we have a proposal so that the actual proposal points at the thing.
* KK: where do we point.
* TBL: point to the storage as an rdf entity. /storage-description#storage
* SC: storage is on /
* TBL: but storage description .. find out things about notifications on the root itself. we're using the storage description to talk about all the resources underneath the storage.
* SC: correct. current design is storage's channels.. not per resource / they don't differ.
* TBL: just as with acl, .acl use.
* SC: we use link rel.
* TBL: i know but the sources we get in the future like websockets.. this is how you form the url of a channel.
* TBL: notifications channel prefix is .channel or something.. and protocol .. and so you can slap it on.
* KK: we are aligned more better now. we should has this out in the issue 355. but then we keep 0.9 as a should. we make sure we get the discovery mechanism.. and put that into TBD.
* TBL: have you have draft of 0.9.1?
* SC: ED can be turned into that.
* TBL: can that be done.
* SC: sure. but what's the requirement.
* TBL: may both old and new.
* SC: both may?
* TBL: clients must implement the new one and may implement the old one. servers must implement the new and may the old.
* SC: is that right?
* TBL: that was my suggestion
* KK: makes sense
* SC: ill go with that.
* KK: who do we reach out for solid ui? timea?
* TBL: yea

ACTION: Follow up in issue 355. KK, SC.

ACTION: After resolving storage description, update ED to say MUST new/MAY old, SC.

* SC: ?
* TBL: Old is SHOULD currently in 0.9.0?
* KK: Yes.

ACTION: Publish 0.9.1 with that ED, SC.

* TBL: Make a copy of 0.9.0 and label 0.9.1 so people can see.
* SC: In the editors draft
* TBL: Sure.

ACTION: Update ED version. Include a change log for 0.9.1, SC.

ACTION: Reach out to solid-ui maintainers

ACTION: Ask in Solid/chat whether there are more WebSocket implementations.

### Requirement levels for Notifications
* SC: Continuation of https://github.com/solid/specification/blob/main/meetings/2022-05-18.md#change-reference-to-solid-notifications-protocol


### Roadmap
* SC: Continuation of https://github.com/solid/specification/blob/main/meetings/2022-05-18.md#milestone--roadmap--prioritisation


### Storage description
URL: https://github.com/solid/specification/issues/355



### TPAC 2022
URL: https://gitter.im/solid/specification?at=6299faf8da83520ac361f875