# W3C Solid Community Group: Solid Editors

* Date: 2022-06-15T13:00:00Z
* Call: https://meet.jit.si/solid-specification
* Chat: https://gitter.im/solid/specification
* Repository: https://github.com/solid/specification

## Present
* [Sarven Capadisli](https://csarven.ca/#i)
* Kjetil Kjernsmo

---

## Announcements

### Meeting Recordings and Transcripts
* No audio or video recording, or automated transcripts without consent. Meetings are transcribed and made public. If consent is withheld by anyone, recording/retention must not occur.
* Join queue to talk.


### Participation and Code of Conduct
* [Join the W3C Solid Community Group](https://www.w3.org/community/solid/join), [W3C Account Request](http://www.w3.org/accounts/request), [W3C Community Contributor License Agreement](https://www.w3.org/community/about/agreements/cla/)
* [Solid Code of Conduct](https://github.com/solid/process/blob/main/code-of-conduct.md), [Positive Work Environment at W3C: Code of Ethics and Professional Conduct](https://www.w3.org/Consortium/cepc/)
* Operating principle for effective participation is to allow access across disabilities, across country borders, and across time. Feedback on tooling and meeting timing is welcome.
* If this is your first time, welcome! please introduce yourself.


### Scribes
* Sarven


### Introductions
* name: text

---


## Topics

### Storage description
URL: https://github.com/solid/specification/issues/355

>ACTION: Follow up in issue 355. KK, SC.

* KK: I commented and then..
* SC: What's next?
* KK: Was looking for the old websocket code on the client side. TIm said it was in the SolidUI but I couldn't find it there. Searched Update-Via, websocket.. but nothing active or a sign of implementation. I'll reach out to Timea.
* SC: But for 355 to be PR'd, do we need a bit more support from the community e.g., an "intent" to implement something along those lines? So far I implemented but there should be others - besides the authors/editors (towards adequate implementation experience).
* KK: I say we just PR and see what kind of support we. However, I think we also should reach out in storage description issue in same outreach.
* SC: I'm fine to PR but we've been reaching out in the issue for *a long time* time. Not much signal there. We have support from the editors but not implementers.
* KK: Then we reach out personally. How about private implementations?
* SC: We can do that.
* SC: I'll just wrap it up and PR and run all of these things at once.
* KK: Okay!


### Actions from last Agenda Overview
>ACTION: After resolving storage description, update ED to say MUST new/MAY old, SC.
>ACTION: Publish 0.9.1 with that ED, SC.
>ACTION: Update ED version. Include a change log for 0.9.1, SC.
>ACTION: Reach out to solid-ui maintainers
>ACTION: Ask in Solid/chat whether there are more WebSocket implementations.

* SC: No update here.
* KK: Right. We need to do the outreach quite urgently, I think.


### TPAC 2022
URL: https://gitter.im/solid/specification?at=6299faf8da83520ac361f875

* SC: Thoughts? There is a fee but it can be waved. I'll have to doublecheck whether it is required for CG breakouts (IIRC, last year there wasn't one.) How about the time slot?
* SC: Oh, I do have a minor update. Checked with the W3C Events Team, and 15:30 UTC may work best on 2022-09-14 and online-only. Still need to confirm if that's possible.
* KK: I'd love to do a F2F, but have a hard time going all the way to Vancouver
* SC: I won't be at F2F.


### Add WebID Profile as work item
URL: https://github.com/solid/specification/pull/413

* SC: I reviewed. Was involved in the UD (as contributor, not editor). Additional reviews needed. I suspect there would be no objections to accept as work item.
* KK: I'll review now... Approved.


### Add Test Suite Panel Charter. Update Panels
URL: https://github.com/solid/process/pull/288

* SC: This is deemed to be necessary to have a mutual understanding for a bunch of interrelated work.
* KK: I haven't been following in detail.
* KK: There are a quite a few comments open. Can they be resolved, so it is easier to review?
* SC: Resolved all related to the Charter. One open one on the panels document. You're clear to review/comment.
* KK cool, I'll try to find time.


### Add license
URL: https://github.com/solid/specification/pull/412

* KK: IANAL!
* SC: That's my line. I'm suing you!
* KK: I suppose you weren't enough on /.
* KK: The final details for adding correct years.. I mean.. argh..
* SC: The main thing is really about whether we link to a license document with a copyright.
* KK: If you don't say anything, the usual copyright law has to be assumed. By adding a license we are giving permissions that they didn't have to begin with. The only thing is we give them freedom with that document. It seems to me that we aren't trying to restrict anything, we are just granting permissions. Therefore, I'm not sure how much could go wrong.
* SC: We do state "MIT License" and the Copyright to the CG in the TRs but it is not the full license text. We do link to an MIT License template but I think that's not correct way of doing this. It needs to state actual years and entity that holds the copyright.
* KK: We could state the one liner and link to the MIT license. Wouldn't that be sufficient?
* SC: That's what we do but I don't find the current link is used correctly.
* KK: Let me just restate IANAL. If this is complex, then we're not the ones who should decide.
* SC: But wait. There is no particular controversy on this approach. Just need group understanding/practise. Because we will then go ahead with link to a human- and machine-readable license document that has our info.
* KK: Alright. Sounds good to me.
* SC: Then please review and let's get more people to review/acknowledge.
