# W3C Solid Community Group: Weekly

* Date: 2024-03-27T14:00:00Z
* Call: https://meet.jit.si/solid-cg
* Chat: https://matrix.to/#/#solid_specification:gitter.im
* Repository: https://github.com/solid/specification
* Status: Published


## Present
* Hadrian Zbarcea
* [elf Pavlik](https://elf-pavlik.hackers4peace.net)
* Jesse Wright
* [Ted Thibodeau](https://github.com/TallTed) (he/him) (audioless, lurking on minutes)
* [Tim Berners-Lee](https://timbl.inrupt.net/profile/card#me)
* [Sarven Capadisli](https://csarven.ca/#i)
* [Pierre-Antoine Champin](https://champin.net/#pa)
* [Michiel de Jong](https://michielbdejong.com)
* Jeff Zucker
* Maxime Lecoq

## Announcements

### Meeting Guidelines
* [W3C Solid Community Group Calendar](https://www.w3.org/groups/cg/solid/calendar).
* [W3C Solid Community Group Meeting Guidelines](https://github.com/w3c-cg/solid/blob/main/meetings/README.md).
* No audio or video recording, or automated transcripts without consent. Meetings are transcribed and made public. If consent is withheld by anyone, recording/retention must not occur.
* Join queue to talk.
* Topics can be proposed at the bottom of the agenda to be discussed as time allows. Make it known if a topic is urgent or cannot be postponed.

### Participation and Code of Conduct
* [Join the W3C Solid Community Group](https://www.w3.org/community/solid/join), [W3C Account Request](http://www.w3.org/accounts/request), [W3C Community Contributor License Agreement](https://www.w3.org/community/about/agreements/cla/).
* [Solid Code of Conduct](https://github.com/solid/process/blob/main/code-of-conduct.md), [Positive Work Environment at W3C: Code of Ethics and Professional Conduct](https://www.w3.org/Consortium/cepc/)
* Operating principle for effective participation is to allow access across disabilities, across country borders, and across time. Feedback on tooling and meeting timing is welcome.
* If this is your first time, welcome! please introduce yourself.


### Scribes
* Sarven Capadisli

### Introductions

* [name]

---

## Topics

### Co-chairs Rotation Schedule
URL: https://github.com/solid/specification/discussions/618

* HZ: Just a reminder.

### Special Topic Meetings
URL: https://github.com/orgs/solid/projects/16/views/1

* HZ: Nothing listed for next week. Anyhting to add? One of the things was on future of notification library. Planning to use that, or other plans?
* HZ: We can't add multiple topics for the same date.
* eP: We can also update previous one and keep the date.
* TBL: History is really important. I'd like to be able to go back to minutes and discuss. Institutional knowledge. Follow links / nose.
* HZ: RG and VB discussing capturing in Discussions.


### WG Charter Update

#### Change name and mission of the WG
URL: https://github.com/solid/solid-wg-charter/pull/69

* PAC: Finally found time to reiew the comments.
* PAC: There are three remaining changes. Some minor. 
* PAC: https://github.com/solid/solid-wg-charter/pull/69/files#r1529416046 is a change suggested regarding applications using their users as authority. I think TBL responded. Several people arguing that it is in fact a feature of the protocol, that we don't need to trust applications to achieve that. There was also a follow-up on a concern re "using Solid correctly" — if people don't use it correctly, what happens?
* PAC: I lean towards not accepting this change exactly because of arguments raised by TBL and eP. Worth discussing here.
* HZ: How do we answer questions along the lines of "what if you don't use it correctly?"
* PAC: CW's point is, how can it claim whether it is possible to use the protocol?
* TBL: Protocol writes the rules and there are expectations. When you overwrite something, nobody will lose their changes. Solid explains these variances. If you don't provide a WebID for example, you can't access something. It is good for a Protocol to list something. On a high level, when you make a new app, you don't need to change anything in the server.
* HZ: Is the question about error handling or attacks?
* PAC: It was more about attacks. What if some people don't want to let users use their authority? Does Solid offer that, or push developers into a certain direction? There are two sides, in fact. Change suggested by JY: the protocols make it easier for applications to allow that, and I think that we don't want to make that change. At least re TBL and eP with argument against that change. Then shifted towards: does the protocol ensures that or does everyone have to play by the book?
* PAC: Property of applications vs protocol. Leaning towards not making that change.
* eP: What we could do for the PR, we can invite that person to raise an issue to dive deeper if we need more clarity.

#### Including Fedora in the list of input documents
URL: https://github.com/solid/solid-wg-charter/pull/69#discussion_r1533548940

* PAC: I think it makes sense.
* PAC: CW raises IPR concerns. Including it in the charter may have additional side-effects. The IPR on the Fedora spec needs to be compatible with W3C patent policy. Will check with W3C Team. Will wait and see.
* eP: We should track as separate issue and merge this.
* eP: If no active community around it, there is no reason to bring it into the charter. It'd be much more beneficial if a participant of that effort could represent it.
* SC: It uses CC license; we don't imply that we would take any text directly. It would just signal that we are aware of that prior work. IANAL but that was my idea to list it as an input. There is an uncountable number of different input documents. As for community involvement, I've been meaning to reach out to the Fedora community and invite them to participate. If there are no objections to this work, it could be useful to us; we'd like to have their expertise and grow the group.
* PAC: SC, would you be okay with merging this separately and have another PR for it? I'd like to check IPR / CC stuff and come back. It'd make sense to add Fedora API and other simliar ones, e.g., IndieWeb stuff.
* SC: Ok to separate into another PR and ask Fedora and others as well.
* HZ: OK for me too.
* eP: We can also follow up on the licensing as we did with the CG charter. Specifically for the code snippets and notices requirement.

ACTION: PAC to merge without other inputs and turn into separate PR.

#### Recharter to adopt other dependencies
URL: https://github.com/solid/solid-wg-charter/pull/69/files#r1529418866

* PAC: JY suggests we might recharter when adding new dependencies. If we want to add new deliverables, we need chartering. In my view, these dependencies are part of the Protocol. Some of those documents don't have the needed maturity level. I don't want Members to come back and say you need to recharter for a cycle of new votes.
* eP: What if we list those as input documents? Not sure if it is needed to express granularity of the Protocol right now.
* TBL: Certainly not. WG needs to be able to split. Doesn't matter with the technology. For me, something like N3 Patch is a more powerful patch language. N3 Patch logically depends on N3, which is handled by a CG. Will then the WG negotiate with the CG?
* SC: From the Solid side, mostly boils down to the data model, so it's just using N3 space; the media type is the same. We either stop at that and use N3 as is, or, if there are important protocol aspects we want to preserve, we can get them on board to accept this work. The work around N3 is venturing in a direction we may not want. If we want to propose `text/solid+n3`, it's a minefield; I don't support that. I like Pavlik's suggestion as technically being true and possible but we are talking about 5 or more specs in one document which is misleading or hiding in some ways. I agree with Tim, the group should be able to re-organize docs as we see fit, but that takes time. Is it realistic to expect that in 2 years? Hiding the idea that it's 5 or more specs there and split later, may not be genuine. We could be specific like what is a deliverable, e.g. protocol, authn. 
* PAC: Your suggestion is to have a more specific list of deliverables? My recollection is that we were not going to split beforehand, because the way it is now may not be most approrpiate, but it wasn't meant to be a 1-1 mapping. Obviously it is not clear in the charter/input documents. What i'm hearing is you wouldn't want a new charter. You'd avoate now to not include ????
* SC: I advocate for minimizing the potential need for re-chartering. Better to be clear up front and set expectations, since there is a timeframe and Team Contacts are being assigned. There'd be the possibility for rechartering anyway based on new findings.
* eP: The WG could try not to standardise N3 (Patch). Could RDF-Star take that as a deliverable?
* PAC: I don't see it happening. and the CG has been working towards

ACTION: PAC merge and clarify other parts of Protocol that are in scope and in deliverables — list as deliverables. Possibly multiple proposals.

#### Bikeshedding the WG Name

* PAC: I was thinking about maybe creating a GH issue where people can propose names. I don't think we need to do that in a meeting, but we need a proper name.

ACTION: PAC to create issue to gather names for a poll later.

* TBL: In the AB, people have objected to calling it Solid Protocol. Re solution to a problem. This should be a vote that I can participate in.
* HZ: What happens if someone proposes Solid and it gets chosen again?
* TBL: Then more objections. The audience for the call.
* SC: Re naming on Personal/Social Stuff WG and being appealing to broader audience. Minimise potential objections.
* TBL: We can't ourselves allow anyone to vote.
* eP: Looking at frontend, "solidjs" is out there. When they hear about Solid, may make a stink.
* SC: Only CG participants can vote, as per charter/guidelines.
* TBL: I disagree. I want W3C AC members to also propose and vote.
* SC: I meant, as a way of blocking off random naming/voting such as blockchain people that you referred to. I don't think we'll have many namings/votes.
* JZ: People would be in favour if they like it. Willing to put a criteria for a name. Maybe more Google-able then Solid.


### Practitioners Update on Searching and Indexing
* JZ: People are invited to join. Important to get participation from the CG.


### WebID CG chair and relationship with Solid

* HZ: Do we have an opinion on how to approach that?
* SC: There is nothing for us to do. I would suggest Solid CG to not do anything right now. Things are fresh. Wait it out. Jacopo wrote a bunch of emails pointing why he stepped down. I replied encouraging Jacopo to stay in his role, and offered support. If PUMPKIN WG decides to pick up WebID, CG chairing doesn't seem to be that relevant. There is already agreement / understanding between Solid and WebID CGs that work on WebID can potentially continue in the PUMPKIN WG.


### WIP Implementation Feedback
* eP: I'd like everyone to think about how we do granular access control.
* eP: Very early demo of https://github.com/janeirodigital/sai-js/tree/main/examples/plenary


### Partial contact information sharing

URL: https://github.com/solid/contacts/issues/5

